# HTML Accessibility WCAG 2.1

## Document Structure
- Page struction
    - Machine Readable Code
    - Landmarks (Header, Nav, etc)
- Content Structrure
    - Human Readable Code
    - Headings

- Use em's and rems for relative unit for zooming into the page if needed.

## List
- Ordered List
    - List of items in an order
- Unordered List
    - Generic listing of items in no specific order
- Description List
    - for FAQs, etc 

- Apart of 1.3.1 - Info and Relationships
    - Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text. 
    
## Navigation and Skip Links
 - Level AA 1.4.5 - Images of Text
    - If the technologies being used can achieve the visal presentation, text is used to convey information rahter than images of text.
- Level AA 3.2.3 - Consistent Navigation
    - Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on multiple Web Pages within a set of Web pages occur in the same relative order each time they are repeated, unless a change is initiated by the user. 
- Level AA 2.4.5 - Multiple Ways
    - More than one way is available to locate a Web page within a set of Web pages except where the Web Page is the result of, or a step in, a process.
- Level AA 3.2.4 - Consistent Identification
    - Components that have the same functionality within a set of Web pages are identified consistently.
-  Skip Link 
    - `<a class="skip-link" href="#main">Skip to main</a>`
    - Needs to be the first thing on the page after the header tag.
    - On main tag, add ID of "main " and tabindex of "-1".
- Skip Link CSS
    - .skip-link {
        left: -100%;
        position: absolute;
    }

    - .skip-link: focus {
        left: 50%;
    }


## Tables
- Tables should not be used for layout
- For multiple nested headers, you will need to set up wtih headers and add them to the table data to associate them together.
- Avoid complex tables. Avoid nested spanning colum/ rows
-  Flatten data

## Forms, Focus, and Color Contrast

### Accessible Forms
- Level AA 1.4.3 - Contrast 
    - The visual presentation of text and images of text has a contrast ratio of at least 4:5:1
- Foreground stands out from background
-  Does not apply to disabled elements
Level AA 1.4.11 - Non Text Contrast
    - User interface components and graphics objects have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1
- Use proper labels with forms
- Level A 4.1.2 - Name, Role, Value
    - For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links, and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.
- Level A 1.3.3 - Sensory Characteristics 
    - Instructions provided for understanding and operating content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics of components such as shape, size, visual location, orientation, or sound.
- Level A 2.1.1 - Keyboard
    - All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes. 
- Level A 2.1.2 - No Keyboard Traps
    - If a keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the page using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard interface.
- Level A 2.1.4 - Character Key Shortcuts
    - Users should have the ability to turn off, remap, or activate only on focus.
    - Benefit to voice users
- Level AA 2.4.7 - Focus Visible
    - Any keyboard operable user interface has a mode of operation where the keyboard focus indicator is visible.
- Level A 1.4.1 - Use of Color
    - Color is not used as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element. 
- Level A 3.3.1 - Error Identification
    - If an input error is automatically detected, the itme that is in error is identified and the error is described to the user in text. 
- Level AA 3.3.4 - Error Prevention
    - Web pages that cause legal commitments to financial transtions for the user to occur, or that modify or delete user-controllable data in data storage systems, must be reversible, checked, and confirmed.
- Level A 2.2.1 - Timing Adjustable
    - For each time limit that is set by the content, the user is able to either turn off, adjust, or extend the time limit.

# Media
- Level A 1.1.1 - Non-text Content
    - All non-text content that is presented to the user has a alternative that serves the equivalent purpose.

## Images
- Level AA 1.4.5 - Images of Text
    - If the technologies being used can achieve the visual presentation, text is used to convey information rather than images of text.
- All imgs must use the alt attribute.
- Images that are for decoration only should have an empty all attribute, `alt=""`.
    - Screen readers ignore images with empty alt attributes.
- Tips for writing ALT text.
    - Don't describe the image literally
        - Ex, "brown couch, with brown pill on left with alphabet imprint and pencil on top, with laptop next to it."
    - Avoid words like "picture of" or "image of."
        - Assistive technologies will note image.
    - Do describe the meaning or purpose of the image.
        - What was the point? What were you thinking?.
    - Include any text that is included in the image.
## Background Images via CSS
- No notes were needed.
## SVG
- Add `role="img"` for semantics.
- Use the `<title>`
    - `<desc>` for expended content, if necessary.
- Use aria-labelledby referencing the `<title>`
    - aria-describedby to reference the `<desc>`.
## Audio
- Level A 1.2.1 - Audop-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
    - For prerecorded audio-only and prerecorded video-only media, and alternative is provided that presents equivalent information.
- Creating Transcripts
    - Paid service (mostly used for larger projects)
    - Speech Recognition
        - Google Docs Voice Typing (Free with Chrome users.)
        - Windows Speech Recognition (Built into the OS.)
        - Apple Dictation (Built into the OS.)
        - Dragon Naturally Speaking (Software requires payment.)
- Tips for Creating Transcipts
    - Include names of speakers.
    - Describe everything.
- Presenting Transcripts
    - Inline (under audio player.)
    - Link (This would be a separate file and needs to be appear under the audio player.)

## Video
- Level A 1.2.1 - Captions (Prerecorded)
    - Captions are provided for all prerecorded audio content in synchronized media.
- Level AA 1.2.4 - Captions (Live)
    - Captions are provided for all live audio content in synchronized media.
- Types of Captions
    - Open
        - Always visible, embedded/burned into videos.
    - Closed.
        - Overlay, toggled on/ off by user.
- Captioning Prerecorded Video
    - Youtube
        - Auto-subtitle (Service provided by YouTube. Not perfect but is a start.)
        - Upload a transcript and sync.
        - Manual entry.
    - Video Captioning Services
    - Manual
- Captioning Live Video
    - Communication Access Realtime Communication (CART) 
        - Live, professional stenographers/ subtitlers.
- Level AA 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)
    - Audtop description is provided for all prerecorded video content in synchronized media.
- Creating non-visual cues
    - "Door slams.", "Thunder and lightning outside window.", "Pam covers mouth while laughing as Dwight discovers his stapler in molded in jello."
- Have subjects introduce themselves and describe surroundings.

## Additional Media Guidelines
- Level A 1.4.2 - Audio Control
    - If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to control audio volume independently from the overall system volume level.
- Level A 2.2.2 - Pause, Stop, Hide
    - For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information provide a mechanism to pause, stop, or hide.
- Level A 2.3.1 - Three Flashes or Below Threshold
    - Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one second period.
- Any embedded media using `<iframe>` should have a label, via the "title" attribute (Level A 2.4.1, Level A 4.1.2)

# Responsive Web Design and Accessibility

## Switch Context

## Order of Content/Focus

## Mobile Devices

## Additional Responsive Guidelines